---
title: 2020
---

# Bonsai Journal 2020

## 2020-09-14

Noticed new shoots on the main trunk of the apple tree mentionned a week ago,
this is very good news, I though this trunk was dead but it's not.

Also noticed new leaves on the hawthorn cuttings that I took a month ago.
They had all dried out after a few days but they may in fact survive.

The box cuttings from last year are doing good and the yew cuttings from two
months ago are still green.


## 2020-09-13

Removed the wires on [Olea europaea #1](/bonsai/collection/olea-europaea-1)
because they were starting to bite into the branches that have grown quite a
bit during the summer and replaced them by guy-wires. I also wired two new
branches.


## 2020-09-12

Wired and bent the trunk of three of the new [Juniperus chinensis itoigawa](/bonsai/collection/juniperus-chinensis-itoigawa-6)
cuttings and it went very well, much better than with the older ones.


## 2020-09-11

Sprayed again potassium bicarbonate on the oak trees that showed new signs of
[powdery mildew](/bonsai/powdery-mildew) on their more recent leaves. Also
sprayed the hornbeam, and the ficus that has small black dot on most leaves.


## 2020-09-10

Put organic fertilizer on every tree.


## 2020-09-09

Received 8 cuttings of Juniperus chinensis itoigawa that are between 2 and 3
years old, and 4 seedlings of Ginkgo biloba that are 2 years old.


## 2020-09-08

The Ficus retusa #1 is still loosing leaves, including new ones, but at the
same time it also keep making new leaves. I moved it a week ago below a taller
tree to get partial shade at noon. Not sure if it's just slowly dying as a
consequence of having been forgotten outside in winter in the past or if it's
something more recent. I'll move it again where it'll get a bit more shade.


## 2020-09-07

The first young apple tree I dig up last spring, because a hare ate its trunk,
is making two new shoots from its base. The first shoot that appeared in spring
is now big and tall. Unfortunately nothing grew on the half eaten trunk.


## 2020-09-06

Some young oak trees where on the ground for the past 2 weeks due to the wind
and when I picked them up I noticed big roots shooting out of the pots. The
root must be growing hard.


## 2020-08-20

Sprayed again potassium bicarbonate on the oak trees that showed new signs of
[powdery mildew](/bonsai/powdery-mildew) on their more recent leaves. Also
sprayed the hornbeam and the mapple trees.


## 2020-08-19

Some green is starting to appear on some buds of Prunus spinosa #1, a new
flush is in preparation.

The old leaves of Ficus retusa #1 are turning black, it seems they are all
burned from the sun. Not sure if it's due to watering too late in the morning
or the quick succession of rain and sun around noon in the past week, or simply
that those leaves formed in winter and one months of full sun slowly burned
them and it's only now that it's quite visible.


## 2020-08-17

Put organic fertilizer on every tree.


## 2020-08-12

Received 3 young unstyled Juniperus chinensis itoigawa and styled [one of them](/bonsai/juniperus-chinensis-itoigawa-1)
to see how it will react.


## 2020-08-10

The leaves of the 6 young Acer palmatum received last month quickly burned in
the partial sun until I put them in a completely shaded location, but most of
them are now going back from a dark red color to a more healthy green color, at
least those that are not too burned. Another good news is that some of them are
producing new leaves.


## 2020-08-08

Collected cuttings from 2 hawthorns in the garden.

The Ficus retusa #1 is finally showing signs of creating new leaves after
being repoted 3 weeks ago. It was very weak, that's probably why the cuttings
are not working. Hopefully it'll get better with the new substrate and room
to grow roots along with plenty of watering and feeding.


## 2020-08-04

The leaves of the 4 Ficus retusa cuttings seems to all be dying at the same
time, even with the 2 where the pot was constantly immersed in water. I put
3 of them inside a plastic bag.


## 2020-07-28

Tightened the plastic bags around the air layering of the apple trees, only one
of them has taken root so far. Most probably dried up too much.

Received potassium bicarbonate and sprayed the oak trees that had severe
[powdery mildew](/bonsai/powdery-mildew) infestation, along with the maple and
the hornbeam trees as a preventive. Used 1L of water, 5g of potassium
bicarbonate, 5g of olive oil, and 1 drop of liquid soap.

The Prunus spinosa #2, that made almost no leaves after being taken from the
ground because it has almost no roots, is now making a lot of new leaves 4
months later.


## 2020-07-26

Cut the top branch of Olea europa #1 and wired other branches to move them
closer to the horizontal plan.

The top branch was transformed into two cuttings.


## 2020-07-23

Cleaned by hand the leaves of the oak trees that were infested with powdery
mildew with water, sodium bicarbonate, olive oil, and soap.


## 2020-07-22

Received organic fertilizer and put it on every trees.


## 2020-07-17

Repotted Ficus retusa #1 and cut the top branches that provided three cuttings.


## 2020-07-16

Received 6 Acer palmatum, 4 Prunus mahaleb, 2 Berberis buxifolia, and 1
Crataegus monogyna.


## 2020-07-15

Transfered 2 Buxus sempervirens that had rooted and 2 that had not but were
still green into pots.


## 2020-06-01

Air layering of apple trees.


## 2020-04-04

Put the previously mentioned trees in the ground over tiles.


## 2020-04-03

Received 3 Prunus mahaleb, 3 Acer buergerianum, 3 Zelkova serrata, and 3
Wisteria sinensis.

Collected 1 Crataegus monogyna next to the road.


## 2020-04-01

Collected 1 Quercus robur next to the house.


## 2020-03-31

Collected 1 Quercus robur next to the house and 1 Prunus avium next to the road.


## 2020-03-30

Collected 2 Quercus robur next to the house.


## 2020-03-29

Collected 1 Prunus spinosa and 1 Malus domestica in the orchard, 1 Quercus
robur next to the house, and 1 Salix caprea laying on the road after a tractor
moved it.


## 2020-03-27

Collected 1 Prunus spinosa in the orchard.


## 2020-03-21

Collected 3 Quercus robur next to the house.
