---
title: 2021
---

# Bonsai Journal 2021

## 2021-02-01

The buds of the young hawthorns and the chojubai in the greenhouse are expending.

## 2021-02-05

Started (a bit late) the stratification of 450 seeds of Acer buergerianum, 600
seeds of Acer Palmatum, 50 seeds of Chaenomeles speciosa, and 500 seeds of
Zelkova serrata. They will stay a few months in the fridge at around 5C.

## 2021-02-16

The olive trees and the firethorn in the greenhouse are slowly starting to
grow again.

## 2021-02-19

The buds of the young hawthorns and the chojubai in the greenhouse are opening.

## 2021-02-24

Repotted the Ulmus parfolia and one of the two Ligustrum sinensis that wintered
in an unheated room inside the house.

## 2021-02-26

Received a 20 years old pre-bonsai of
[Acer buergerianum #1](/bonsai/collection/acer-buergerianum-1)
from Bonsai Plaza that was originally imported from Korea.

Repotted Crataegus monogyna #1 and the first young Acer palmatum.

## 2021-03-03

Repotted Prunus avium #1

## 2021-03-04

Repotted Prunus avium #2, 4 Ginkgo biloba, and 5 Acer palmatum.

## 2021-03-06

Repotted the Olea europaea sylvestris #1 and the Pyracantha coccinea #1, then
took 16 cuttings of the former and 6 of the latter after removing the branches
that will not be used later.

## 2021-03-08

Received 2 liter of kanuma for the Rhododendron indicum chinzan #1 and 10 young
Acer palmatum from Maillot Bonsai.

The seeds of Prunus spinosa in the fridge are starting to split in two.

## 2021-03-09

Moved the Carpinus betulus #1 back into the ground for a few years.
Repotted the 10 young Acer palmatum.

## 2021-03-11

Repotted 2 Berberis buxifolia and 4 Prunus mahaleb.

The buds from the cuttings of Euonymus europaeus from last December are
expending.

## 2021-03-13

Repotted 7 young Juniperus chinensis itoigawa, Rhododendron indicum chinzan #1,
and Prunus spinosa #1.

## 2021-03-15

Received one bag of Italian pumice (3-7 mm), one bag of pozzolan (3-5mm), and
one bag of akadama (2-5mm).

Repotted Olea europaea #1 and its two 15 years old small cuttings.
