---
title: 2023
---

# Bonsai Journal 2023

## 2023-01-09

I did some branch selection pruning on the oaks.

## 2023-01-18

It snowed around 3 cm.

## 2023-03-11

I repotted Acer buergerianum #1 and it was more than time to do it, its roots
were circling multiple times around the pot.

## 2023-04-08

Acer buergerianum #1 is leafing out.

## 2023-05-26

Pyracantha coccinea #1 is covered in flowers at about the same time as last
year.

## 2023-06-10

I cut back the branches of Pyracantha coccinea #1.

## 2023-06-12

Rhododendron indicum hanazono #1 has started flowering, one month later than
last year.

## 2023-06-18

Rhododendron indicum chinzan #1 has started flowering, also late compared to
last year.

## 2023-06-22

Rhododendron indicum hanazono #1 is absolutely stunning, completely covered in
white flowers.

## 2023-07-01

I removed the flowers from Rhododendron indicum hanazono #1.

## 2023-07-30

I cut the new branches not needed on Ficus microcarpa #1 and pruned the olive trees
(in hindsight a year later it was too late in the season for them, they grew
well in the greenhouse in autumn but the new leaves didn't have time to become
dark green).

## 2023-10-30

The leaves of the Japanese maples are becoming orange.

## 2023-11-02

The major storm removed many glass panels from the greenhouse without breaking
them but did not damage any bonsai trees as I took the previous day to prepare.
Lots of fallen trees, but not in the bonsai area.

## 2023-11-05

The leaves of the Japanese maples are bright red.

## 2023-11-13

I pruned Acer buergerianum #1 but kept the first branch longer to let it grow
more and did not cut its top branch to enlarge the top of the trunk.
